In this section, we will discuss the types of data
needed for a Knapsack, possibility to elements,
and we'll explore if we can do some entity data modeling for marketing,
finance, and customer care use cases.
We know our business goals,
we have [inaudible] that'll be spearheading those and we know what their use cases are.
Our first stakeholder group is engineering.
Their business goal is having a working product.
The use case is monitoring site and app performance.
For that, type of data needed would be event data.
Data elements needed would be,
event ID, timestamp and event type.
Next will be product management team.
Their business goal is improving product and
the use case will be identifying customer pain-points.
For that, they will need event data,
and the event data elements they could use would be,
event ID, timestamp, even type and event page.
Marketing wants to retain old customers.
Their use case is targeted advertising.
They will be needing,
entity data for that.
Some of the entity data elements that could be useful for them are,
customer name, e-mail, phone,
address, and customer order history.
Next comes finance.
They want to predict P&L growth and their use case is monitoring current P&L.
The data that will be helpful to them would be entity data.
They would need data elements around cost and price.
They might use aggregated transactional data, number of transactions,
cost of transaction, retail price,
taxes, and the other type of charges.
Focus area of logistics team is product delivery.
They want to identify delivery bottlenecks.
They would need both event data and entity data.
The event data that could be useful to them might be event ID,
timestamp, event type, parcel number, hop number.
Entity data they might need could be,
parcel number, hop number,
and time at hop.
Next, inventory management team.
They want to have sufficient inventory to achieve that goal.
They want to monitor inventory lead time.
For that they might use both event,
an entity type of data.
Data elements that could help them are,
in event data category,
event ID, timestamp, event type, batch number.
For an entity data,
there will be interested in timestamp when the order was placed,
timestamp when order was dispatched from the manufacturing facility,
timestamp when the order was delivered to the warehouse and batch number.
Finally, customer care team.
They want to address customer grievances
and provide personalized response to the customer.
They will require entity data for that.
Useful data elements for them could be,
order number, product details,
cost, price, and delivery date.
Entity data modeling.
For marketing, finance,
and customer use cases,
we'll start with four tables.
Table 1, it stores customer contact information.
Table 2 has customer demographics.
Table 3 contains order details.
Table 4 is about product.
In customer table, we have customer ID,
first name, last name, address, and e-mail.
Customer demographics has, customer ID,
age, gender, marital status, parental status.
Order details has, order ID, date,
product ID, customer ID,
quantity, retail price, tax rate.
Product table has, product ID,
type, color, size, material, and cost price.
Now we'll identify keys.
Customer ID is primary key for customer table,
and customer demographics table.
Product ID is the primary key for product table.
Order ID is the primary key for order details table.
Foreign keys for order detail table are,
customer ID and product ID.
All other tables do not have any foreign keys.
For targeted advertising, we have to be careful.
It should be delightful and not creepy.
The marketing team will join,
order table with product table and customer demographic table,
to get customer insights and purchase patents by demographic.
For example, we might realize that youngsters like cool and funky bags,
while adults prefer functional and professional bags.
We can use this information along with customer information to do targeted advertising.
If John Doe recently created a profile and told us he is 45,
married and have children.
We can send him promotional e-mails suitable for his persona.
Next, for monitoring profit and loss,
we will calculate margin per order,
picking retail price and tax from order data and cost from product tables.
This data will be aggregated periodically to create P&L trend over time.
Please note, for simplicity sake,
I have considered only few elements of cost.
That basic idea remains same.
We calculate cost and subtract it from revenue to get profit.
Next, customer care team needs.
All the history of customer,
what they bought, when they bought it,
that data will be derived by joining order table,
product table and customer table.
This will help customer care team provide personalized responses to the caller,
and this brings us to the end of this section.
Let's bring it all together with one last quiz.